LaFabrique |Build Status|
=========================

.. figure:: https://github.com/JulienPeloton/LaFabrique/blob/master/additional_files/outputs.png
   :alt: ScreenShot

   ScreenShot
The package
-----------

This package contains scripts for generating simulated CMB datasets
(current and future) \* Noise \* Generate (inhomogeneous) noise maps \*
Covariances \* Generate covariance matrices (in the sense inverse noise
weights) \* Foregrounds \* Generate foregrounds maps (dust, synchrotron,
freefree, spinningdust, ...) based on the PySM \* Frequency coverage \*
Multi-frequency \* Sky coverage \* Scanning strategy simulator included

Before starting
---------------

This code has the following dependencies (see the travis install
section): \* numpy, pylab, scipy, etc (required) \* healpy >= 1.9.1
(required) \* h5py (required) + libhdf5 if using linux \* weave
(optional if scipy <= v0.18 - required otherwise because no longer part
of scipy v0.19) \* ephem (required - for scanning strategy) \* mpi4py
(optional - for parallel computing) \* PySM (optional - foreground
generation see https://github.com/bthorne93/PySM\_public)

Installation
------------

We provide a setup.py for the installation. Just run:

.. code:: bash

    python setup.py install

Make sure you have correct permissions (otherwise just add --user). You
can also directly use the code by updating manually your PYTHONPATH.
Just add in your bashrc:

.. code:: bash

    LaFabriquePATH=/path/to/the/package
    export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$LaFabriquePATH

Usage
-----

You can find ini files to have a quick usage:

.. code:: bash

    python generate_dataset.py -h
    python generate_dataset.py -setup_env setup_env.ini <other options>

The code has a parallel architecture, which can be useful for large
noise simulations at high resolution (simulation of scan strategy and
foregrounds are done serially for the moment). For example, just use
(replace mpirun by your favourite one):

.. code:: bash

    mpirun -n <nproc> python generate_dataset.py
        -setup_env setup_env.ini
        -setup_scanning setup_scanning.ini
        -setup_instrument setup_instrument.ini

Note that at NERSC, you have to replace the python binary by python-mpi
which is optimized for parallel computing.

Here is the breakdown of the code for 100 noise simulations for 8
frequency channels on 48 processors at a resolution of nside = 2048, and
a few percent of the sky. Notice that the Cholesky factorisation is done
only once per processor for each frequency band and for all MC
simulations (corresponds to 48[proc] \* 8[freq] = 384 calls below).

.. figure:: https://github.com/JulienPeloton/LaFabrique/blob/master/additional_files/perf_100MC_nside2048.png
   :alt: ScreenShot

   ScreenShot
License
-------

GNU License (see the LICENSE file for details) covers all files in the
LaFabrique repository unless stated otherwise.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/JulienPeloton/LaFabrique.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/JulienPeloton/LaFabrique
